---
title: "Day 10: Competition and Cooperation Between Multiple Reinforcement Learning Systems"
layout: defaults/paper_post
---

<!--more-->


# Competition and Cooperation Between Multiple Reinforcement Learning Systems by Kool W. et al

## Why I chose it

Book chapter about RL, it's a review from 2018, going into detail of recent finding in the computational side of neuroscience + RL. In particular possible implementations of RL systems that consider both model based and value based strategies (the thing in the middle). *What is needed is a theory of metacontrol that encompasses all of these systems. The development of such a theory will be a central project for the next generation of RL research.*


## Papers to check out

Animal RL (Dolan & Dayan, 2013; Gershman, 2017).

“Daw two-step task” (Daw et al., 2011)

Reward association induces insensitivity to subsequent outcome devaluation (a hallmark feature of habitual control; Gillan, Otto, Phelps, & Daw, 2015)

Uncertainty-based competition between prefrontal and dorsolat- eral striatal systems for behavioral control

Carr, Jadhav, & Frank, 2011 for a review of replay sequences during rest.

Keramati et al. (2016) 3 step paradigm: Adaptive integration of habits into depth- limited planning defines a habitual-goal-directed spectrum

## Content summary

Review of RL in neuro. I'll list some finding that caught my attention.

- Cognitive control required for model-based (2-step + stroop task to load working memory)

- We propose that arbitration between model-based and model-free control is achieved by integrating the costs and benefits of each system

- Daw 2-step isn't the best task to study the RL arbitration hypothesis (change of strategies)

- First evidence that the brain attaches a cost to the exertion of model-based control. (Kool et al., 2017).

- A bunch of results lead the authors to propose a model-free RL system that integrates reward history and control costs, to decide the use of model-free or model-based strategies in decision-making.

- They also review cooperative explanations for the interaction of both systems, such as offline replay (using computational model Dyna)
 
 -Cached, model-free values may be used to decide which goal to pursue, while model-based planning is used in order to determine how to attain it.

 

## Writing


## My questions and future work

Two-step task is interesting but doesn't consider change in transition structure? (it is flexible though as I already saw in another paper in which they change the transitions...but not in this exact paradigm, here they could change probability of transitions as well).

I feel like one should be able to design a task so model-free gives better results, more complex task in which the decision tree is just too big for model-based to work (without throwing out guesses). Not sure right now, but I think such a task could be used for other hypothesis. They'd have bigger RTs if using model-base...maybe forcing a tradeoff between performance (reward) and RT, so the reward is in fact a tuple reward-RT. I think there might be a better "curve" than just a simple uses model-free or model-based, a deeper description...which could be useful in particular to diagnose different conditions...not only if someone uses model-based vs model-free but *HOW THEY CHANGE BETWEEN THOSE*, I guess that comes into meta-cognitive territory, which can be related to recent meta-learning algorithms in deep RL. Effectively, this is what the paper ends up talking about!! (I'm not that lost if I'm concluding things before reading them)

*Study differences between conscious and unconscious changes between model-based and model-free (this is assuming both exist)*

*most task look like make the change between model-free and model-based something conscious...is there any way that could be automatic*

*At present, it is unclear whether these different strategies occur simultaneously or are adaptively invoked much like in the controller arbitration problem.*

*What is needed is a theory of metacontrol that encompasses all of these systems. The development of such a theory will be a central project for the next generation of RL research.*

[Kool, W., Cushman, F. A., & Gershman, S. J. (2018). Competition and cooperation between multiple reinforcement learning systems. In Goal-directed decision making (pp. 153-178). Academic Press.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780128120989000073)