---
title: "Day 6: The successor representation in human reinforcement learning"
layout: defaults/paper_post
---

<!--more-->


# The successor representation in human reinforcement learning by I. Momennejad et. al.

## Why I chose it

Getting a better idea of this RL method in the neuroscience context.


## Papers to check out

Papers from bibliography: 12, 13, 14, 15, 24, 2, 26, *37, 38, 39 and 40 and 52*

## Content summary

The paper talks about the successor representation reinforcement-learning algorithm, which lies between model-free and model-based RL algorithms. The study's focus was discriminating if human brains implement SR or MB in decision-making, with behavioral experiments.
Helpful because in methods they have the explanation of each computational model (mathematically!)

### Experiment 1

In experiment 1, they have 3 phases, and they make it so the subjects can't take actions (control that variable) in the learning phase. The task involved a sequence of states which lead to some kind of reward, after it the subjects had to asses their preference for a starting state (with a continuous scale!!! Way better than a likert). Phase 1 they learned the structure of the task, in phase 2 they changed it and phase 3 it was tested how people's preferences were modulated (revaluation). The changes in Phase 2 were 3:

1. Reward revaluation (change of sequence's reward)
2. Transition revaluation (change of sequences)
3. Control (no change)

They did an ANOVA and post hoc t-tests, using Bonferroni corrections. Considering they had prior hypotheses, they did planned comparisons (making the Bonferroni correction less strict). It showed a significant difference between reward and transition revaluation, and those 2 with the control.

Control didn't have a significant difference to zero (change of scores).

>This finding is important because it verifies that baseline forgetting or randomness cannot explain participants’ behaviour in the non- control conditions.

There was also a significant difference between conditions in response times, smaller RTs for reward condition (I guess learning the transitional structure is more difficult than just a change of reward).

They also report a multimodality in both experimental conditions' revaluation scores (subject variability in strategies? Or simply ones being great at the task and some just ok as shown by the modality). This is used as a starting point for the use of RL methods which are frequently used to differ between populations.

### A hybrid SR model explains differential sensitivity to varieties of revaluation.

SR's key signature is a differential sensitivity to reward versus transition revaluations.

MF: predicts equivalent and total insensitivity to both revaluation conditions, because participants never re-experience the start state after revaluation. This would fool temporal difference learning. *This assumes no memory though...*

MB: predicts equal sensitivity to both conditions. Intuitively it understands the change of value because it has a model, independent of reason of that change.

SR: predicts it learning the reward structure and not the transition (not entirely the behavioral results, but it considers a difference between those conditions).

They found a combination of SR and MB could explain the behavioral results better, they do a linear combination of them. That way the model shows partial sensitivity to transition revaluation.

### Experiment 2: differential sensitivity to revaluation types in a sequential decision task

They added actions (decisions) and a third revaluation condition: policy revaluation. Same 3 phase structure. Revaluation score was measured as the change of action from phase 1 to phase 3.
Policy revaluation changes a terminal state's reward to be the highest reward of all (in phase 2)....*I don't get it... seems the same as reward revaluation.*
The idea is there's a change of action in a given second state (independent if that state was the preferred state before).

Behavioral results, performance in order:

1. Reward revaluation
2. Policy revaluation
3. Transition revaluation

1 was different compared to 2 and 3. 2 and 3 were not.
They were all different to control.

### A hybrid model explains lower sensitivity to policy revaluation

Analogous results to experiment 1, with the added finding of:

>The similarity in performance on transition and policy revaluations suggests that the differences we observed, in both experiments, between transition and reward revaluation cannot be due to different learning rates for adapting to transition and reward changes.

### Testing alternative possibilities

1. Difference in MF-MB arbitration between conditions.

2. Differences in learning and updating T, M and R.

### Discussion and conclusions

>The crucial prediction made by the SR account, confirmed in two experiments, was that human participants would be more sensitive to changes in reward structure than to changes in transition and policy structures.

My question about what mediates the use of different systems is discussed:

>One general possibility is that humans use a form of meta-decision-making, weighing the costs and benefits of extra deliberation to determine when to invoke MB computation (27–29)

RTs my be a hint of such hybrid strategy.
*Many possible explications, this is a area of study!*

MTL and PFC should be related to SR implementation.


## My questions and future work

Isn't the account of transitions assuming the subjects aren't remembering the first state shown in phase 1, when being asked for middle states in phase 2?

Relying less on cache in transition revaluation... is it a coscious decision because of the difficulty of the task? And relying apparently more on cache for reward revaluation is that automatic because of difficulty.

They say they are using MB hybrid, couldnt it just be that they are using MF all the time, but the times they do transition revaluation they use memory to simulate (in real time), the existence of an initial state? And the fact it is a simulation/memory it makes it give worse results afterwards?.

What is a Wald test (seems like a statistical test for a logistic regression)? That is indeed

Still not totally convinced of this statement:

>While MB performs equally well on all revaluation tests and *MF solves none*

>Instead, we predict (and leave to future work to investigate) that the planning horizon should rationally be influenced by the statistical structure of experience, such as the stability or volatility of transitions and rewards in the environment. In other words, the structures of the environment should be reflected in the representations that are learned and stored in memory


*Look for tea-jelly paradigm*

[Momennejad, I., Russek, E. M., Cheong, J. H., Botvinick, M. M., Daw, N. D., & Gershman, S. J. (2017). The successor representation in human reinforcement learning. Nature Human Behaviour, 1(9), 680-692.](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6941356/)