---
title: "Day 11: Reinforcement learning and episodic memory in humans and animals: An integrative framework"
---

# Reinforcement learning and episodic memory in humans and animals: An integrative framework by Gershman S. et al.

## Why I chose it

Reading it for a second time. It is frequently cited in current RL research, it talks about the idea of integrated what we know about episodic memory (grid cells, etc) and dopamine based RL. The interaction of those systems is what interests me the most at the moment.

<!--more-->

## Papers to check out

Dissociating the role of the orbitofrontal cortex and the striatum in the computation of goal values and prediction errors. J.

Latent learning and sensory preconditioning.

## Content summary

>With few exceptions, the kinds of experimental tasks that have been used to study RL are quintessentially toy problems.

>(a) real state spaces are high-dimensional, continuous, and partially observable; this implies that (b) data are relatively sparse and, indeed, precisely the same situation will never be encountered twice; furthermore, (c) rewards depend on the long-term consequences of actions in ways that violate the probabilistic independence assumptions that make RL tractable.

The paper continues with a quick review of the computational foundations of RL (MDPs, model-based and model-free learning). Followed by evidence of model-free and model-based learning in the brain.

## Writing


## My questions and future work

The big thing about this paper is of my interest, how does real-world RL work. In what moment does a memory get assigned a reward value, when forming the memory, when the events ends? That dynamic seems under-explored.

[Gershman, S. J., & Daw, N. D. (2017). Reinforcement learning and episodic memory in humans and animals: an integrative framework. Annual review of psychology, 68, 101-128.](https://cbmm.mit.edu/sites/default/files/publications/GershmanDaw17.pdf)