---
title: "Day 2: Learning Structures: Predictive Representations, Replay, and Generalization"
---

# Learning Structures: Predictive Representations, Replay, and Generalization by Ida Momennejad

<!--more-->


## Why I chose it

Reinforcement learning related to cognitive maps


## Papers to check out: 

Besides the ones the author recommends, check paper 36, 39, 85 and 88.

## Content summary

Cognitive map theories contradictions don't explain properly all phenomena

> This review is focused on learning compact  representations of the structure of states  that are multi- step, multi-scale, and path-dependent using successor representations and replay in the RL framework. 

Important to have in mind, all this framework is to learn the structure of state spaces, independent of reward.

Successor representation (SR) as a flexible (like model-based RL) and tractable (like mode-based RL).

Being _n_ the number of states, the transition matrix (SR) _nXn_ has the probabilities of going from one state _i_ to a state _j_ in one-step.

SR is a transition  ~~probability matrix~~ (apparently in form of expected visitation to that state) unlike the caches learned by MF RL which saves expected future reward

> While MF learning caches discounted expected future value (running average of rewards), SR learning caches discounted expected future visitations from one state to another state (mean count visits)

**That's... unusual, wh would count make it any different (wouldn't the discounted probability be the same, divided by ammount of total transitions?)**

SR-Dyna combines SR with replay, and was a good model for human behavior.

Related terms to SR:

>In linear algebra, dimensionality reduction, and graph theory, the SR matrix is mathematically equivalent or related to concepts such as the matrix dissolvant, fundamental matrix, communicability distance, and the inverse of the graph Laplacian

**The SR approximates the inverse of the graph laplacian**

What does it mean that it approximates?

After this, the paper shows evidence for the neural plausibility of SR.

SR matrix is updated using temporal difference learning, leading it to be __policy dependent__.

SR-Dyna implements replay (ideas from Dyna family of RL models).

> Empirically it has been shown that SR-Dyna outperforms MF, MB, MF-MB, Dyna-Q(+), prioritized Dyna, and pure SR (without replay) in capturing human retrospec- tive revaluation behavior [26,32].



## Writing

States objectives of the review at the end of the introduction, followed by a index of sub-sections. In each subsection the author states the objective of that section in the first paragraph.

The mathematical explanations seem a little too shallow, I assume because of the target reader for this given journal. Referencing equations that will be used in the future seems also like a bad writing habit imo, not how you would a mathematical paper anyways.

I like how each sub-section mentions the future work that should be done in that given area.

## My questions and future work

**Big question:** what happens in continuous state spaces? You need another representation OR the brain makes it discrete before doing these type of computations. This might make sense for spatial scenes as there are mechanisms separating events, but what about abstract combination of features

> Future studies are required to better understand the role of uncertainty and volatility of rewards and transition structures on offline replay and prioritization.

> Future experiments with hierarchical structures, uncertainty, and sparse rewards are required to test different replay and sampling prioritization meth- ods against human and animal performance. Further- more, future modeling work is required to capture the relationship between hippocampal and cortical replay, sharp wave ripples and neural oscillations, and behavioral outcomes.

Structure limits in learning from RL algorithms compared to humans.




[Momennejad, I. (2020). Learning Structures: Predictive Representations, Replay, and Generalization. Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences, 32, 155-166.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2352154620300371)