---
title: "Day 9: Hippocampal Contributions to Model-Based Planning and Spatial Memory"
layout: defaults/paper_post
---

<!--more-->


# Hippocampal Contributions to Model-Based Planning and Spatial Memory by OM Vikbladh et. al

## Why I chose it

Bridges RL with hippocampus, opening the possibility for studies relating cognitive maps and memory (episodic semantic). Relates my interests from last year with my current interests.


## Papers to check out

An analogous dissociation between hippocampal and basal-ganglia-dependent memory has been demonstrated in humans using fMRI in virtual spatial tasks (Hartley et al., 2003; Iaria et al., 2003; Voermans et al., 2004; Doeller et al., 2008)., (Schultz et al., 1997; Bayer and Glimcher, 2005). *(Miller et al., 2017)*. (Daw et al., 2011; as modified by Gillan et al., 2016)

## Content summary

Model-based planning and place memory rely on a common hippocampal substrate. The study bridges the reinforcement learning and spatial memory literatures to clarify the scope of hippocampal contributions to behavior.

They study the effect of different sized lesions in ATL (anterior temporal lobe) in plannings tasks, using a 2-step Markov decision task. 

1. Compared to controls, patients skewed away from model-based planning.

2. Patients display impaired boundary-driven place memory (another task for this)

3. Deficits are more robust for patients with right-lateralized ATL (exploratory results->it compares a group of 9 and 10, from the 19 patients). Expected right lateralization for spatial memory, no clear hypothesis for model-based planning.

4. Lesion size in the *right hippocampus* predicts model-based planning deficits (+ size = worse performance). No _significant_ finding with boundary memory (less trials)

In spite of their results about planning, there's a big caveat, given the cover story had spatial elements that could have elicited a spatial interpretation (confounding the study).

>Still, our results do not speak clearly to the perennial question whether the hippocampus plays a special role in such models for spatial versus more abstract relational tasks. This is because, although our planning task is structured like an abstract Markov decision process, its cover story, in terms of rocket trips to planets, might have eli- cited a spatial interpretation.

Another caveat is results could be explained by epileptics episodes before surgery.

## Writing

I really like Neurons format where they have brief abstracts with the main finding, sometimes a graphical abstract is included.

The big caveat mentioned in the discussion was probably assessed after making the study, maybe reviewers made them note it.

## My questions and future work

Sequential decision making in rodents and animal models seem really uncommon, difficult to teach... in particular making them use some kind of model-based strategy. How studies are really certain something is model-based...they usually compare with the expected results from a model-based algorithm...but what if the same results could be explained by model-free + something else. 

They use untreatable epilepsy patients, they had a section of the brain take out...if we knew the fire pattern...is there any technique to do selective selection of neurons? that is give a tag to each neuron...diferent tags to each

*This apparently is the first paper to relate hippocampus to model-based decision making...now how does episodic and semantic affect differently it'? Also...how many people actually use VR and fMRI. Do a example of what i can do with VR and have it in my github*

*Logistic mixed-effects regression*

Look at possible questions using fMRI, looking at ROI hippocampus for example.

*Using a sequential planning task...but without spatial component, abstract space...it will always be some kind of space though, same for using the SR model*


[Vikbladh, O. M., Meager, M. R., King, J., Blackmon, K., Devinsky, O., Shohamy, D., ... & Daw, N. D. (2019). Hippocampal contributions to model-based planning and spatial memory. Neuron, 102(3), 683-693.](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30871859/)