---
title: "Day 8: Offline replay supports planning in human reinforcement learning."
layout: defaults/paper_post
---

<!--more-->


# Offline replay supports planning in human reinforcement learning Ida Momennejad et. al.

## IMPORTANT: NOT FINISHED READING

## Why I chose it

Frequently cited in recent computational psychiatry and RL in neuroscience papers (from Ida et al). Relates episodic memory in the form of offline replay, and decision making, which is exactly what I'm currently interested on. Their methods section is a really good reference for models and statistics used in this intersection of RL and fMRI.


## Papers to check out
Tolman 1948, https://doi.org/10.1037/a0030844 , prioritized sweeping (Moore and Atkeson, 1993; Peng and Williams, 1993). (Polyn et al., 2005) for images for fMRI decoding. (Gruber et al., 2016), Tolman, 1948)


## Content summary

They examine:

>(...) integration of memories to support action evaluation can also occur offline, such as during off-task rest periods or even sleep.

They use fMRI and MVPA to find certain states being replayed. Which episodes _should_ be replayed? They draw insight from prioritized sweeping, replay is modulated by prediction error of an episode, leading to replay of episodes connected to that terminal.

Reward revaluation paradigm with action selection. They use a cover story of playing a game of thief (validity of the use of such paradigm? Forces them to use imagination...). 2-stage.

They had forced choice catch stimuli to control attention and learning ('police' and 'suspicious corridor' states). Force them to actually pay attention to the task.

Rest periods between blocks to asses offline replay. They had a behavioral measure (replanning behavior). ... not entirely sure how do they measure replay exactly? fMRI?

### Discussion

>We suggest that during offline replay the brain integrates and pieces together simulated trajectories of information acquired during multiple learn- ing episodes and updates planning policies accordingly.

>However, to our knowledge, no human or rodent study has tested the role of offline replay in piecing together distal episodes to support planning

This last quote leads to a lot of possibilities


## Writing

States all the current findigs in the introduction ending with this sentence

>However, so far, no animal or human study has provided neural evidence that integration dur- ing offline replay supports planning.

After doing that statement it's all new information about the current study. Pretty good way of writing introductions. The papers that make you think the findings are important almost always follow this structure.

Discussion includes conclusions. 

I like how they give examples of the cover story, makes it way easier to replicate and understand.

Violin plots showing the data points, and how they change between groups (how a subject changes).

*They state their future work in this line in the discussion*

## My questions and future work

What does MVPA actually entail, what is the analysis. 

Prioritized sweeping algorithm.

Model-based fMRI analysis.

They use images as to show episodes, how much does context, and semantic relevant context have to do with learning/decision-making. Is it just: makes more sense->better memory -> better learning, or might it be that context also facilitates in mechanisms not related to memory itself.

Formal term for psychological paradigm design (2x2 factorial design e.g.).

The design is about stealing, would the task emotional valence, or social meaning (doing something _wrong_ or not) influence how people do the task?

A interesting replication of this study would be using _events_ instead of simple static images for the episodes. Baldossano and other have done algorithms to catch events in fMRI data, you could see if people replay events in sequential decision making tasks. 

*Search if they have done that already outside of a decision-making task*

Spearman rho values. Check results in more details as well as methods, really good reference.

*In natural settings, what would _rest_ really mean, does it just entail time? time doing "nothing"? time doing something with no working memory entailed? no new episodic memory?? Studying what actually means that rest, can that rest be the same if one is doing another unrelated task? What about a related conflicting task? a related enabling task?*

>However, to our knowledge, no human or rodent study has tested the role of offline replay in piecing together distal episodes to
support planning.

*Testing in EEG!! There are cortex regions related to this behavior in the paper. Testing in rodents. Testing with complex events. Testing eeg dynamics, method in which this replay happens in time?*



[Zorowitz, S., Momennejad, I., & Daw, N. D. (2020). Anxiety, avoidance, and sequential evaluation. Computational Psychiatry, 4, 1-17.](https://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1162/cpsy_a_00026)