---
layout: post
title: "Day 5: Reinforcement learning in the brain"
date: 2020-05-28
---

# Reinforcement learning in the brain by Yael Niv

## Why I chose it

2009 review about reinforcement learning in the context of neuroscience. Should give me a better idea of the questions (though it IS a 10 year old review) in the field.


## Papers to check out

The papers that explain blocking, overshadowing, inhibitory conditioning and over-expectation. __Representation and timing in theories of the dopamine system__

## Content summary

Before the RL framework there existed paradigms in behavioral psychology, explaining decision-making in the face of reward and punishment. But the advantage of RL is, it is a __normative__ framework, that is:

1. Generates predictions regarding the molar and molecular forms of optimal behavior
2. Suggests a means by which optimal prediction and action selection can be achieved.
3. Exposes explicitly the computations that must be realized in the service of these.

Descriptive models study behavior __as it is__, normative models from the point of view of its hypothesized function, that is, they study behavior as it should be if it were to accomplish specific goals in an optimal way. The appeal of normative models study behavior as it should be if it were to accomplish specific goals in an optimal way.

A great thing about current use of RL in neuroscience is it state the 3 Marr's levels

1. Computational: the definition of maximizing a future reward function
2. Algorithmic: any of the many possible algorithms to solve this problem
3. Implementation: extracellular recordings in animals, and fMRI in human decision-making have revealed a RL signal, the _temporal difference reward prediction error_ (via a dopamine signal in the midbrain)

### Reinforcement learning: Theoretical background

#### Rescorla-Wagner Model:

First formal account of learning. Learning is driven by difference between what was predicted and what actually happened (already sounds really similar to temporal difference learning). It explains behavior such as:

1. Blocking (Kamin, 1969)
2. Overshadowing (Reynolds, 1961)
3. Inhibitory conditioning (Konorski, 1948)
4. Over-expectation (Kremer, 1978) (previously unknown phenomena)

Short-comings

1. It doesn't explain second order conditioning though!! (the conditioning of a conditioning stimulus)
2. Conditional trials as discrete temporal objects (imposes a temporal structure on learning).

#### Temporal difference learning

Sutton and Barto (1990). It adds temporal timing to Rescorla-Wagner's model, with a modified recursive prediction error formula, which accounts for all future decisions. Actually accounting for all future decisions requires knowledge of the "world model", so generally people use model-free versions (like TD(0)).


### Neural correlates of reinforcement learning

RL models are related to neuromodulators such as dopamine, acetylcholine and serotonin. Dopamine is the most studied. Early on it was thought "dopamine equals reward", but experiments showed that after being conditioned, the dopaminergic response disappeared, with the primates having learned the condition!! (expecting the reward). Prediction error only when there is...error. That is a __difference__ between real and expected reward.

Bayer and colleagues showed the same exponential weight average of past experience implied in the TD learning rule, can be found in neural data. Other studies also proved rewards can be weighted by probability (as one would expect from RL).

The review then mentions some results and short-comming of human experiments, in particular  they mentions that BOLD signal could mean different things in different brain areas


>The first fMRI studies to search for prediction errors in humans implicated the nucleus accumbens and the orbitofrontal cortex (Berns, McClure, Pagnoni, & Montague, 2001; Knutson, Adams, Fong, & Hommer, 2001; Pagnoni, Zink, Montague, & Berns, 2002),

>The striatum is definitely a viable candidate for representing state values (e.g. Samejima, Ueda, Doya, and Kimura (2005) and Schultz, Apicella, Scarnati, and Ljungberg (1992)).

Evidence for multiple reinforcement learning systems in the brain, not all decisions are mediated by dopamine. Different timescales of dopamine effect (tonic dopamine might explain net rate of reward).

### Challenges and future directions

* Novelty (exploration) bonuses (in line with bigger dopamine activity to novel stimuli)
* How does learning from one task affect subsequent learning. This fundamental question is still, for the most part, awaiting a normative computational account
* Complex task (with hierarchical structure)
* Relationship between RL and timing (semi-Markov framework)


## My questions and future work

Studying other neuromodulators besides dopamine, with the RL framework.
Look if we still don't understand prediction of aversive events such as pain, which don't use dopaminergic neurons.
Research about meaning of BOLD signal in different brain areas.
My guess for different decision making signals is energy usage at the end of the day.
It is a 2009 paper but the complex tasks problem seems to still be a big thing, and I'm really interested in that part, in particular combining long-term memory (semantic and episodic). What are semi-Markov frameworks.

[Niv, Y. (2009). Reinforcement learning in the brain. Journal of Mathematical Psychology, 53(3), 139-154.](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0022249608001181)