---
layout: post
title: "Day 7: Anxiety, Avoidance, and Sequential Evaluation"
date: 2020-06-04
---

# Anxiety, Avoidance, and Sequential Evaluation S. Zorowitz et. al

## Why I chose it

Expands on the research done by Ida Momennejad and Nathaniel D. Daw in sequential decision-making but now in what looks like the field of
computation psychiatry, which is also of my interest. It has github code and a detailed description of the models used, which are pretty basic RL models with one smart change to account for anxiety.

## Papers to check out

Fung et al 2019 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41562-019-0595-5 , Computational psychiatry: The brain as a phantastic organ. Reverse replay of hippocampal place cells is uniquely modulated by changing reward. Neuron,

## Content summary

Common symptoms in anxiety disorders:

1. Exaggerated expectation of threat
2. Associating main threat with distal locations, events, thoughts.
3. Avoidance behavior way before the actual threat

For clinical study, they use a modified Bellman equation, called beta-pessimistic
Gaskett (2003). It weights the best choice by w and the worst one by (1-w). Choosing the min, is equivalent to going against one's preferences (one could say your preference changes too...).

Their model replicates several anxiety symptoms such as: approach-avoidance conflict, aversive pruning, anxiety-depression transition (detail on paper), and predicts something not currently related with anxiety, free choice premium (choices that lead to more choices are more valuable in healthy population). Empirical research is needed to test this prediction.

In the discussion the acknowledge their model is one way of modifying the Q function, they could also change the transition probability dynamics instead of using a max and min function. 



## Writing

SLightly confusing for whom the paper is for. Seems like a review of methods and RL more than anything, it is published in a new Computational psychiatry journal looks like. Code it free access, seems like generally computational areas of neuro are improving in this area, more than others.


## My questions and future work

Cool ballon analog risk task to measure anxiety, that can be modelled using RL. So is the predator avoidance task from Fung et al 2019. Thinking about how they modify one part of the equation, what would happen if the reward not being know factually (the environment giving them certain reward...but with a degree of uncertainty itself).



[Zorowitz, S., Momennejad, I., & Daw, N. D. (2020). Anxiety, avoidance, and sequential evaluation. Computational Psychiatry, 4, 1-17.](https://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1162/cpsy_a_00026)